:#LAN Technologies | ETHERNET:
  
  
  The connection among the devices could be wired or wireless. Ethernet, Token Ring and Wireless LAN using IEEE 802.11 
  are examples of standard LAN technologies.
  
  Ethernet :-
            IEEE standards 802.3. 
            The reason behind its wide usability is Ethernet is easy to understand, implement, maintain and allows 
            low-cost network implementation. 
            Ethernet operates in two layers of the OSI model, Physical Layer, and Data Link Layer.
            For Ethernet, the protocol data unit is Frame since we mainly deal with DLL.
            In order to handle collision, the Access control mechanism used in Ethernet is CSMA/CD.
            
             Over time, Ethernet has largely replaced competing wired LAN technologies such as Token Ring, FDDI and ARCNET. 
             
             Ethernet data transfer rates have been increased from the original 2.94 megabits per second (Mbit/s) to the
             latest 400 gigabits per second (Gbit/s).
             
             Systems communicating over Ethernet divide a stream of data into shorter pieces called frames.
             Each frame contains source and destination addresses, and error-checking data so that damaged
             frames can be detected and discarded; most often, higher-layer protocols trigger retransmission of lost frames. 
             
             
              Manchester Encoding Technique is used in Ethernet.
              
              
               In both Manchester Encoding and Differential Manchester, Encoding Baud rate is double of bit rate.

               Baud rate = 2* Bit rate 
               
               
               Ethernet LANs consist of network nodes and interconnecting media or link. The network nodes can be of two types:
               
               Data Terminal Equipment (DTE):- DTEs are the end devices that convert the user information into signals or 
                                                reconvert the received signals.DTEs devices are: personal computers, workstations,
                                                file servers or print servers also referred to as end stations.
                                                 A user can interact to DTE or DTE may be a user.
                                             
                                             
                                             
              Data Communication Equipment (DCE):- DCEs are the intermediate network devices that receive and forward frames 
                                                    across the network. They may be either standalone devices such as repeaters, 
                                                    network switches, routers or maybe communications interface units such as 
                                                    interface cards and modems. The DCE performs functions such as signal 
                                                    conversion, coding and may be a part of the DTE or intermediate equipment.
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
                                                    
Currently, these data rates are defined for operation over optical fibers and twisted-pair cables:
i) Fast Ethernet
Fast Ethernet refers to an Ethernet network that can transfer data at a rate of 100 Mbit/s.

ii) Gigabit Ethernet
Gigabit Ethernet delivers a data rate of 1,000 Mbit/s (1 Gbit/s).

iii) 10 Gigabit Ethernet
10 Gigabit Ethernet is the recent generation and delivers a data rate of 10 Gbit/s (10,000 Mbit/s).
It is generally used for backbones in high-end applications requiring high data rates.


